we're living through a period of time in
the 21st century when most of the major
presuppositions built into mainstream
politics are proving to be false now I'm
not a radical I'm not a revolutionary
I'm not a communist I'm not an anarchist
if you stick around and watch some more
videos on this channel you'll see I'm
and I'm a critic of all of those
tendencies all those organized political
factions however I'm a mainstream
moderate pragmatist who's willing to
admit that most of the political
assumptions that seemed unassailable and
sacrosanct 200 years ago are now
revealed to basically be nonsense think
about as an easy example the separation
of powers doctrine that was what
revolutionary France was built on that
was what the United States of America
and it's constitutional tradition were
built on and if you think about what
it's supposed to promise what it's
supposed to deliver what it's supposed
to protect what it's supposed to ensure
it's just nonsense and nobody even
debates it nobody even cares right now
the streets of Portland Oregon a city of
only 2 million people have been on fire
for 40 days continuously we're having
debates at various levels of profundity
and shallowness about policing not only
in the United States of America but also
interestingly in France to countries
that are very much linked by their
revolutionary tradition by their their
first constitutions of that era in the
18th century
have you read the French Constitution it
was written after World War 2 it's not
ancient but it reflects and continues
ancient errors do you think you're gonna
find anything about the relationship
between the police
and the average citizen on the street in
that Constitution again read the
American Constitution which has more
recent amendments but the document
itself dates back to the American
Revolution we're gonna find anything
about the relationship between the
police and members of the public
I've comment on this in in other videos
um and when you actually look at the
ideology that surrounded pervaded and
underpinned the writing those
Constitution for example the philosophy
of the separation of powers doctrine
found in the bar on the Montesquieu's
book let's read it la nobody is talking
about that on the streets of Portland
Oregon in 2020 nobody's talking with
that in the in the black lives matter
movement and from my perspective the
greatest tragedy of all is that all of
the phony radicalism of the year 2020 is
destined to rise and fall and be
forgotten without changing a goddamn
thing
we have several recent parallels in
Western politics and I am NOT saying
this to ridicule the pious intentions of
the protesters involved but as a
pragmatist to learn from their failure
extinction rebellion occupied the
streets of London England cost millions
and millions of dollars in damages with
a so-called peaceful protest that from
my perspective was not terribly peaceful
from their perspective was maximally
disruptive these term disruptive rather
than peaceful protest I just know
enormous cost to the taxpayer and of
course some people went to prison and
some damage done to property so that
that can be evaluated the the pious good
intentions of the protesters can be
debated the outcomes cannot extinction
rebellion rose and fell and not a
goddamn thing changed nothing was
accomplished point to one piece of
legislation point to one positive
outcome from their movement and what are
they trying to do now with their little
YouTube channel they're trying to rub
their magical associate social media
sticks together and get a spark of
public interest again to just repeat
exactly the same strategy over again to
the same methods and notice they're now
using more explicitly Marxist rhetoric
of class warfare they're now claiming
they're going to organize the working
class against other classes before they
tried to claim they were above such
petty political distinctions but I guess
times change anyway they're they're
trying to rile up the masses once again
to have the same kind of quote
disruptive unquote protests however much
you might sympathize with the outcomes
that the protesters involved in black
lives matter or the particular anarchist
groups in Portland all right if you
sympathize with the outcomes they say
they're pursuing you have to admit
yourself this is not the way to get
there now in the case of X Nisha
rebellion
I don't sympathize with the outcomes
they're pursuing I don't sympathize the
methods I I reject the whole thing
entirely I I questioned the whole thing
entirely I think I've questioned it
truthfully I think I quite accurately
predicted what would happen with that
movement in my assessment of what it was
staged by by stage and we can now sit
back and see the outcomes and if you
were one of the people who devoted
hundreds of hours of your time just as a
volunteer or who ended up spending
thousands of hours of your time in
prison you might look back on your life
years later and wonder about the
opportunity cost about what could have
been done what you could have
accomplished just as one person with
those hundreds of hours of those
thousands of hours if you've done
something more productive and then you
scale it up you think about all the
other protesters who had hundreds of
hours and thousands of hours and what
they could have done it what you
collectively could have done if you
worked on something positive rather than
slinging destruction wrath is there
something destructive or disruptive with
that with that time and of course
there's the other question of cost if
you're looking at the millions and
millions of dollars that were cost to
the taxpayer there's a loss there too
that can be measured now so all
these same things I don't think I need
to repeat myself if we can look at the
rise and fall of extinction rebellion in
England and then we can take a glance
the United States of America and the
rise and fall of public outrage
following after the murder of George
Floyd all the same questions can be
asked and tragically I mean I say this
tragically we have to come to the same
conclusions is this the way to arrive at
a better organization of police or of
the polity in the United States of
America the answer is no and of course
you know I also am horrified by the
murder of George Floyd there are many
ways in which I also can say I cry out
for justice and I'd like to see very
fundamental changes in the organization
of society and that should probably
start with discarding the Constitution
you've got and writing an entirely new
one but that brings us to the most
dangerous and difficult question of all
who who among us would write that
Constitution I've already had several
videos devoted to the question of who
are the leaders of black lives matter as
an organization black lives matter has a
catchphrase or as a hashtag is something
very different from black lives matter
as an actual organization with actual
leaders and by the way an actual bank
account and actual donations and they
actually make money selling t-shirts so
I mean I don't mean black lives matter
as the concept or the hashtag on Twitter
if we're talking about the leaders of
the actual group as its formally
incorporated its three founders and so
on I've got to tell you my conclusion is
they are absolutely the wrong people to
be asking those questions answering
those questions researching what the
solutions are or writing new legislation
and I think you can tell I don't say
that with any contempt in my heart it's
just you take a look at who they are II
take a look at their educational
background you take a look at the books
they've written or contributed chapters
to take a look at their interviews you
evaluate what they say themselves and
it's interesting to note when leaders of
black lives matter are interviewed and
they're asked tough questions we
is rare they're normally asked a lot of
softball questions like isn't it just
wonderful to think that you started with
this Twitter account and now you can
change the world they're asked a lot of
questions of that but when they're asked
difficult questions like if you defund
the police then you call 9-1-1 because
you have an emergency who answers the
phone they very often will give answers
along the lines of look I'm not an
expert I don't have questions precisely
phrases the problem of who are the
experts or who is going to do the
research who is going to have it hits us
those questions I think again there's a
very close parallel between extinction
rebellion in England and the
disorganized protests and riots that
erupted after the death of George Floyd
we can call them the black lives matter
protests of the year 2020 one of the
most fundamental things they have in
common is this a pouring of anger
dissatisfaction disruption but
fundamentally what the protesters are
doing is saying here's the problem now
we want the government to solve it now
we want the government to fix you know
extinction rebellion are actually
explicit in articulating this explicit
extinction rebellion one of the reasons
why for example they don't advocate
veganism they don't encourage your vegan
diet is because they say they do not
advocate any particular solution they
merely advocate the importance of the
problem and demands that the government
do something to solve it that's it
that's their jente so they're not going
to get into veganism they're not going
to get into water quality questions or
particular power plants or solar power
versus wind you know no details no just
have the riots make the difference then
something else is gonna solve the
problem and this is ultimately a very
childlike attitude towards politics the
attitude is throw a tantrum and the
grown-ups they'll respond to your
tantrum and solve your problems and we
as the children throwing the tan
apparently don't have to be worried
about the solutions and that's what the
demands to defund the police really are
they're a tantrum right now in Portland
in miniatura this is playing out again
with even greater levels of absurdity
people seem to think that they have the
civil right to literally assault the
police and burn down police buildings
and attack federal agents using
fireworks and they up they ought to be
able to do so with impunity as a
quote-unquote peaceful protest somehow
don't the authors of the Constitution
had this in mind under the definition of
a peaceful protest and apparently
federal agents have have no right to
respond with force this is truly surreal
in a country where if someone steps on
your lawn you're allowed to shoot them
dead for trespassing I mean the rights
of self-defense
normal citizens have compared to these
policemen and federal agents who were
stuck inside a courthouse that was being
assailed by explosives you know mostly
fireworks and people trying to light it
on fire or they were inside looking at
it at this yeah so as I say the the
generalized absurdities of the protests
of 2020 were repeated in miniature and
with greater intensity in Portland just
in the last few weeks and in the last
few days so my overall theme for this
video is to draw your attention to the
extent to which means stream Western
politics not the left-wing fringes of
communism anarchism
and not the right-wing fringe is either
not the right-wing libertarians or
something but the absolute center of
pragmatic mainstream politics in the
West is really based on a lot of
completely false assumptions that rarely
go examined or discussed in any profound
way whatsoever and force it's times like
this it's when you have real problems
that they should be examined and we
should start to come up with new
solutions and we should start to reject
those assumptions in the past in my
prior video the one uploaded immediately
before this what I was indirectly doing
was questioning the
Consensus gentium that's really attached
to the intellectual legacy of John
Stuart Mill John Stuart Mill was an
author he was a philosopher he was also
an elected politician and what I'm
saying now is what's attributed to John
Stuart Mill you might say it's Mill ism
I'm not so much directly quoting Mills
own works himself and I know if you get
into the details on this you can find
John Stuart Mill some time saying one
thing and some time saying the exact
opposite he was a he was a human being
he was a politician it's not like
quoting the 10 commandments put it that
way the overall concern John Stuart Mill
had throughout his life and this is
really important his autobiography more
than it is in any kind of particular
manifesto or his writings about the
philosophy utilitarianism his concern
was about the ethical status of
minorities in a Democratic Society and
what did he mean by minorities it is
stated incredibly politely and
indirectly but one of the things he had
in mind was the status of sexual
minorities meaning homosexuals gays and
lesbians right know the type of
biography he cannot even admit this I
think it is so strangely censored
herself censored you really got to know
what everybody knows were and you know
he's worried about how a man could lose
his job and be kicked out of political
office and be kind of hounded out of
society and England at that time if for
example he should tire of the company of
his wife and being unable to get a
divorce
start living with another woman and you
understand John Stuart Mill himself was
never in that situation he had a female
friend and some people said this was a
situation she was married to another man
but that was a completely platonic
friendship how dare you think it's so he
it's interesting note that one type of
minority he was interested in today we
would be able to articulate very easily
as the problem of gay
and that was an intensely belligerently
homophobic society but also a society of
Christian purity or Christian Puritanism
you could say where people really did
actively want to punish those who dared
to cheat on their wives or ended up in
these kinds of complex situations they
had one marriage that drifted apart they
had lived in the same house for ten
years and now they're sleeping with
someone else these things have always
existed but he was very sensitive to
that other issues that interest him
especially was the status of the British
Empire in India so you had for him
obvious questions like the status of
Indian people who were living in England
the status of the British Empire in
India and then also for example the
treatment of Jews by a Christian
majority country all right I say
consensus gentium because what came out
of these reflections and ruminations
from John Stuart Mill and what I was
literally taught in the classroom on the
chalkboard in a Canadian university
department political science was this so
the conclusion is in a democracy
what you need is poor ilysm is to divide
the society up into hermetically sealed
self-governing units where the majority
does not have the opportunity to oppress
the minority problem solved this grand
design was followed in England and
Canada this grand design leads to Canada
having Catholic schools funded by tax
payers
we don't have separation of church
estate where people raise their children
steeped in Catholic doctrine and only
knowing other Catholics never being
exposed for their religion in their
worldview from cradle to the grave and
just a few blocks away in downtown
Toronto there is an Orthodox Jewish
school and a few blocks away there's a
Muslim fundamentalist school and they're
all entitled to taxpayers money in this
wonderful vision of a pluralistic
society where each each little ethnic my
door
gets to in some strange way Sokka oh
wait except except for the except for
the indigenous people right except for
it for some reason
some reason this logic just never
extended to the crazy Ojibwe the Mohawk
the den a is called it's sad and it's
sick
this is you know pluralism meant equal
rights for everybody except when it was
inconvenient
you know forced assimilation colonialism
and genocide for the indigenous people
but this strange patchwork approach to
self-governing pluralistic minorities
and then once a now I would say the
United States never really brought into
pardon me never really bought into this
the way that the British Empire did the
way that England itself did Canada did I
assume Australia on the other side of
the ocean did as well um South Africa
would be another very interesting story
to evaluate I think it's completely
obvious in 2020 perhaps much more
obvious than the first example I used of
the separation of powers doctrine that
this promise will not lead to any of the
desirable outcomes that have been
supposed and indeed looking back
historically that it never has been
now really simple example evolution okay
let's throw into evolution and the
Holocaust in the year 2020 this is a
real issue in London England right now
and in Toronto Canada right now of the
government trying to cajole these Muslim
only schools to teach kids evolution and
to teach them of the Holocaust really
happened because these are communities
where not just the teachers and not just
the students but often the parents they
may be deeply committed to a worldview
that rejects evolution and rejects the
factual history of what really happened
during World War two with August right
what's what's your vision of this
so-called pluralistic society and then
conversely if you want to force these
people to have a standardized secular
education you have to you rope
pressing them that's oppression you're
taking children away from their parents
and you're forcing them to learn about
things like evolution and history and
politics and condoms and where babies
come from think just how to avoid
getting hiv/aids how to wash their hands
the germ theory of disease and
vaccination I mean not easy to think of
all the things that really the
government and society absolutely wants
to coerce minorities however defined
religiously define death amid fun
wouldn't linguistically define what have
you the coercive power of the state is
inevitably and inexorably going to be
used to demand this of all these
communities and the greatest tragedy of
all is what this resulted in in England
and Canada was not a melting pot Society
right what it resulted in was the
mutually impoverishing invidious
division of the society into tiny
islands each island looking across the
gulf to the others with a mixture of
mistrust hatred and derision if you
don't believe me you can go out to
suburbs of Canada where there's one
apartment building over there where
everyone's a Palestinian refugee and
like really across the parking lot
there's an apartment building where
they're all Israelis they would wear
this is locky business for me where
there were Brazilians
from Portugal spoilers there were
Portuguese speakers from Brazil and
there were Portuguese speakers from
Portugal and they lived in mutually
invidious separate communities there
were Greeks and Macedonians who still
those are small communities but still I
remember hearing about that right so now
obviously in Canada the one that's on
the most enormous scale is the division
tree francophone an Anglophone right and
this has been preserved they have
separate schools even in a place like
Saskatchewan even in Regina look it's
not just Quebec even in regenitive the
francophones and the Anglophones are
separate and don't talk to other and
hatred sir melissa is here off camera
Melissa
have we ever once had a conversation
with had coffee with had any interaction
with the French the french-speaking
minority oh that's true if you include
YouTube I've talked to one francophone
in the last 5 10 years in Canada there
was one francophone working behind the
counter of the hotel once but the mutual
isolation is real and by the way in case
you didn't know the french-speaking
population tends to overlap with being
Catholic about 98 percent so also a
Catholic versus non Catholic division
there so on and so forth okay so this
has been treated as the solution it's
the blueprint for a multicultural
society in the British Empire and I've
already admitted to you that what people
attribute to John Stuart Mill may only
somewhat vaguely and imperfectly
resemble the precise words of John
Stuart Mill if you want to dig through
the footnotes of what he wrote okay this
is one thing but the other remember is
almost nobody actually reads John Stuart
Mill anyway people in power whether in
Canada England around the world this is
an incredibly influential doctrine
mostly they just talk about
multiculturalism they talk about
globalization they talk about these fee
and they have no idea what the history
is how this emerged out of the British
Empire conquering India and by the way
the sincere concerns of John Stuart Mill
and a few of his contemporaries about
the fact that he lived in a society
where it wasn't safe to be a homosexual
it wasn't safe that she got your wife
it's true
it really wasn't safe to be a Hindu
living in Anglican England and he saw
the way Jews were treated quite badly
but
Christian majority and he really said
whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa this democracy
thing which was already quite limited in
England at that time maybe democracy
needs to be limited precisely because of
the problem of the majority oppressing
the minority that really was the basis
for the creation of multiculturalism as
we as we now have it and although again
the influence was not as direct I would
say it's also underpinning a great deal
of what we see today in the United
States whether it was employed cynically
as it definitely was in the post-world
War two period with the creation of
redlining policies with the creation of
separate schools for black people and
white people which was never
constitutional it was never even legal
but the United States government did it
everywhere an amazing kind of government
conspiracy created racially saturated
schools throughout your whole country
and a lot of that happened after World
War two I mean obviously some of that
goes back to sorry but you you'd be
surprised a lot of it's not that ancient
separation of you know that this this is
pluralism right this is the creation of
an invidious divide and it's an
invidious divide that in 2020 when all
of us can all of us can look into one
another's eyes and see you know
appreciate one another's Humanity in a
way that was perhaps much more difficult
in an era when for most people the only
black person whose voice they ever heard
was Louis Armstrong on the radio that's
that's real you got there again if
you're if you're not as old as me even
when I'm talking to people my
grandparents age they really you know
what there really was a time when the
who black people were was quite hard for
them to understand the only interface
they had with black culture was through
figures like Louis Armstrong and the
very strange representation of
african-americans in cinema here and
there there were a distant mysterious
people well everything's gotten a lot
less mysterious and frankly I think the
political phenomenon of YouTube is a is
a crucial part of that and one regular
viewer the channel right into me and he
said a guy I know he has I know his good
attention he said that in my challenging
these
was the consumptions and my challenging
the thought terminating cliche of
left-wing people today saying that we
should just listen to the voices of
black people we should just listen to
the voices of transgender people who are
the oppressed group is in my taking this
rather challenging and defiant yet
centrist and pragmatic view of politics
in twentieth century he said that I'm
wrong because and I know he has good
intentions and this because I can't know
what it feels like to be an African
American in the United States of America
in the year 2020 I can't know what it
feels like to be a transgender person in
the United States America in the year
2020 and this is a situation where I
have to say you are correct but what
you're saying is entirely spurious if I
don't know do you think that through
research I could know this kind of
knowledge it's not passive right it's
acquired it's not innate it's not
natural its acquired through hard work
and like the whole discipline of social
anthropology is based on the premise
that by going out and doing research
including things like participant
observation a white Western outsider can
go and live and work amongst tribal
people in Papua New Guinea and can start
to understand their cultures and start
to understand their perceptions let's
start to understand what their concerns
and interests suffer now if you look at
the members of parliament where you live
the members of your local state Senate
or whatever you've got you may well
think none of these people are going out
and doing the work for social just like
Amin really okay
let's talk about Canada's indigenous
people which is by far our most
impressed minority the Cree the achieve
way the den a
Mohawk Iroquois etc whoo-hoo on us who
in Parliament is going out and living in
their communities and seeing their
political problems there who's that
experience that's a great question
I mean who is there in the American
Senate who's going out and living in I
don't know the slums of Chicago and is
going and visiting their schools and
looking at what the situation is and the
problems the education system and the
economic problems and it's looking at
the policing problems and it's going to
the precinct and talking to criminals
and that may indeed be a very
fundamental problem with your system of
government whether in the United States
Canada or in any other particular
country however it's nevertheless very
much false to say that there are for
black people and black people alone
should write the legislation that
pertains to and governs black people
right now a great example is system of
education right system education in the
States is bad and most people would
agree it is especially bad for African
Americans it has been for 200 years it's
gone through various phases all right
and yet we all know that does not mean
that for example the leaders of black
lives matter are the people who can sign
a new and better system of education the
people who can design and then then
legislate into existence a better system
of education are going to be the people
who do the research that's it that's the
solution to the riddle right the problem
with the modern concept of democracy not
the ancient Athenian concept of
democracy is that it only answers the
question of who gets what it presumes
that you've got a bunch of greedy
children around a buffet table haggling
over who's gonna take what food from the
buffet no how are you gonna divide up
the riches of the state and this is
really a false optic this is a
misleading way to think about democracy
right democracy is and must always be
a problem-solving method I completely
concede the point that protests can make
a society aware of a problem right it
can raise the question and as pathetic a
method as it is to protest of burning
down a Wendy's restaurant I I would not
approve of lighting a winning with
Wendy's restaurant on fire for a vegan
activist you know promoting veganism
opposing meat-eating I wouldn't approve
it for black lives matter activists so
I've been consistent on this through my
whole political commentary career on
YouTube I'm morally opposed it however
if you concede the point that protesters
lighting a restaurant on fire and
burning it down that this raises the
question it still leaves us with this
tragedy of the protesters not being able
to furnish the answers and we live in
societies where the Constitution's we've
written and the parliaments we've
created are in absolutely no way
designed to be research institutions to
include or reflect in any way expert
opinion how many medical doctors are in
your system of parliament how many
nurses and all of these countries have
these endless negotiations between
parliament and the nurses union
Parliament the doctors union because
there isn't representation for them
already and probably could have seats in
promise this is doesn't take a genius to
think this stuff through right now in
Canada can ask question where is the
representation in Parliament for the
Chiefs of the various tribes for the
indigenous people there isn't any it was
designed intentionally it was incited
entually to exclude them even you know
so of course and then you have these
ridiculous negotiations between
Parliament's and local tribal
governments and so on means that you
basically anywhere you see negotiations
you see something and domestic
negotiations it means there's something
there you have to write into your
Constitution or write an entirely new
constitution to avoid these negotiations
these are people should be included in
the the democratic process not
negotiated with as if there are
outsiders and opponents of that that
democratic process right if you have a
system of government
that can't even cope with as well
organized as will funded a minority as
medical doctors how are you possibly
going to reflect the opinions of the
poor and downtrodden be they African
American Native American or otherwise
you have a completely surreal farce of a
system of government in the United
States and the problem has been up till
now up to 2020 the most fundamental
questions of how to reform that society
have only been asked by the lunatic
fringe of left-wing extremists and
right-wing extremists be they communists
anarchists or libertarians there has
been an unforgivable lack of concern and
imagination from the moderate pragmatic
centrist and the truth is sometimes the
most moderate and pragmatic thing you
can do is to tear the government down
and bring you constitution starting from
a blank piece of paper the Japanese did
it the French did it you know I've
mentioned the Portugal tit hit it's it's
really not that daunting you guys may
not know this this year 2020 trying to
even write a new constitution they were
they rewrote their entire corpus of law
the entire Canon of civic law the Civic
code or civil code as you might say was
been rewritten all law in China was
rewritten this year it it can be done
Napoleon did it in six eight months I
forgot now all right the Napoleonic Code
you can write a new laws you can find
fundamentally new solutions to these
problems but we're emerging from a long
period of pretending that these things
didn't matter when you read the
Constitution the United States America
when you read the constitution of France
there is no answer to the question of
what the relationship between the police
and members of the public ought to be
there is no answer to the question how
are you going to integrate
Muslims and Muslim majority schools into
a Christian society or a secular society
or an atheist society what is the role
of government in relation to governing
these ethnic minorities a whole long
series of unexamined assumptions crept
into and corrupted this system and their
effect was so corrosive precisely
because the people involved in
corrupting the system like John Stuart
Mill themselves and like my viewer who
wrote in with that suggestion they
perceive what they were doing as
virtuous